.TH CSPTR 3  2015-01-09 "" ""
.SH NAME
csptr \- smart pointers for the C programming language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <csptr/smart_ptr.h>
.sp
.BI "void *unique_ptr(" "Type" ", " "(Value)" ", ... );"
.BI "void *shared_ptr(" "Type" ", " "(Value)" ", ... );"
.sp
.B #include <csptr/smart_ptr.h>
.B #include <csptr/smalloc.h>
.BI "void *smalloc(size_t " "size" ", size_t " "nmemb" ", int " "kind");
.BI "void *smalloc(size_t " "size" ", size_t " "nmemb" ", int " "kind" ", void (" "*dtor" ")(void *, void *));"
.BI "void *smalloc(size_t " "size" ", size_t " "nmemb" ", int " "kind" ", void " "*meta" ", size_t " "metasize" );
.BI "void *smalloc(size_t " "size" ", size_t " "nmemb" ", int " "kind" ", void (" "*dtor" ")(void *, void *), void " "*meta" ", size_t " "metasize" );
.BI "void sfree(void " "*ptr" );
.BI "void *sref(void " "*ptr" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR smalloc ()
function calls an allocator
.BR "" ( malloc (3)
by default), such that the returned pointer is a smart pointer.
.IR "The memory is not initialized" ,
and great care should be taken to initialize it before destruction if a
destructor has been specified. If
.I size
is 0, then
.BR smalloc ()
returns NULL.
If
.I nmemb
is 0, then smalloc shall return a smart pointer to a memory block of at least
.I size
bytes, and the smart pointer is a scalar. Otherwise, it shall return a memory
block to at least
.I size * nmemb
bytes, and the smart pointer is an array.
.PP
The
.BR sfree ()
function calls the deallocator associated to the
.BR smalloc ()
allocator
.BR "" ( free (3)
by default) on
.I ptr
if the smart pointer is either unique or shared with a reference
count of 0. If the smart pointer is shared, it shall decrement the reference
counter by 1 before checking if the deallocator needs to be called.
.PP
The
.BR sref ()
function creates a new reference to
.IR "ptr" ,
incrementing the internal reference counter of the smart shared pointer by 1.
It shall only be called on a shared pointer.
.PP
The
.BR unique_ptr ()
and
.BR shared_ptr ()
macros expand to a call to the
.BR smalloc ()
function with either UNIQUE or SHARED for the
.I kind
parameter, then sets the newly returned memory with
.IR Value .
Parenthesis around
.I Value
are mandatory. Additional parameters are passed as-is to the function.
If
.I Type
is an array type, then
.I size
shall contain the size of the compound type, and
.I nmemb
shall contain the length of the array. Otherwise, if
.I Type
is a scalar or complex type, then
.I size
shall contain the size of the type, and
.I nmemb
shall be 0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR smalloc ()
function return a pointer to the newly allocated memory.
On error, it returns NULL.
NULL may also be returned by a successful call to
.BR smalloc ()
with a
.I size
of zero.
.PP
The
.BR sfree ()
function returns no value.
.PP
The
.BR sref ()
function returns
.IR "ptr" .

.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR malloc (3)
